#Universal Asynchronous Reveiver/Transmitter
##UART

##Why use a UART?

What is a serial protocol? The data gets shifted one bit at a time. Nice because they don't use a lot of wires as opposed to parralel protocols.

Modern serial protocols: Pci-Express, USB, SATA.

Original serial is the UART (also called RS-232).

UART: Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter

Asynchronous means the data is sent without a clock.

Advantages:
 - Simple, only two wires & ground
 - No Clock
 - Inexpensive

Disadvantages:
 - Low speed
 - Requires agreed on baud rate to communicate
 - Only links two devices together point-to-point

PC devices such as mice and ASCII terminals often use UARTs for communication to the PC.

UART uses:
 - Becoming miuch less common
 - Largely been replaced by faster, mor sophisticated interfaces
  * PCs: USB, Ethernet
  * Embedded systems: I2C, SPI
 - Still used today when simple low speed communication is needed

TX - serial data out (short for transmit)
RX - Serial data in

Data is shifted in and out in parallel, usually 8 bits at a time.

Bit time is a function of the baud rate. Baud rate is bits (or kbits) per second.
The bit time is seconds per bit.
If baud is 1200 bps, UART will have 1/1200 seconds or about 833.3 microseconds bit duration.

We idle high, then send a start bit, which is low, then send the data and then go back high.
Data bits (7 or 8).
LSB is transmitted first, the MSB is last. This is unlike any other protocol. All others send MSB first.
After data bits, there is an optional parity bit. Parity bits allow you to detect single bit errors.
After parity bit, then a stop bit. 1, 1 1/2, or 2 stop bits. Stop bit marks the end of the transmission. Receiver checks to make sure it is a '1'.

UARTs have programmable options:
 - Data: 7 or 8 bits
 - Parity: even, odd, none, mark, space
 - Stop bits: 1, 1.5, 2
 - Baud rate: 300, 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, 19.2k, 38.4k, 57.6k, 115.2k...

Most common configurataion (and default on most)
 - 9600 baud
 - 8 data bits
 - no parity
 - 1 stop bit

To compute efficiency, count number of data bits and other bits (start, stop, parity)

Receiver usses a 16x internal clock cycle. This is used to sample the data bits in the middle of the bit signal. We sample 1.5 cycles after the start bit comes to get the middle of the data bit.

UART Receiver

Reveiver verifies that the stop bit is a '1'
 - If not, reveiver reports a "framing error" to the host system

RS232 uses negative logic.





