What is a createive person? A child who has survived.

If you argue for your limitations, you get to keep them.

eudaimonia - human flourishing; and contented state of being happy and healthy and prosperous

Creativity does not equal suffering

Paul Bloom - how do we find pleasure?

It doesn't just occur, it develops. It's not a repeated experience, it's by learning. Our pleasure increases as we learn about the history, origin, and deeper nature of things.

Excellence is a habit, not an act.

Perfectionism is a high end version of fear.

The best way to have a good idea is to have lots of them.

Fluency - ideas based on an original concept or application. Generated by logic.

Flexibility - Ideas not based on original application.

## Early Renaissance

Renaissance means rebirith. The renaissance was a rebirth of greek and roman ideas and creativity.

Dante is important because theological ideas are written for a mainstream audience. He's interested in delivering a liberal education.

Pietrarch wanted to show how to reconcile "classics" with the ideas of the church.

Lasted from about 1450-1550

Italy was prime for the renissance becuase of independent city-states.

Florence was a republic. Ruled by the Medici (wealthy family).

Gutenburg press was important, lots of publishing was done in Italy (50%)

Milan was ruled by a succession of dukes and they saw Florence as a threat.

Florence was threatened but was saved by a plague that killed the Duke.

Florence saw their republic as being in God's favor. They wanted to build a new Rome.

Florence commissioned an art contest to build new doors for the baptistry, it was to depict Abraham's saccrifice of Isaac.

Ghiberti's panel had more emotion, thus humanism.

Brunelleschi - dome. Two domes, one innner lighter, and and exterior dome. Created an "herringbone" brick pattern to give it strenght.

Invented linear perspective.

Donatello's "David" statue. Paegen style, love of the body. Importance to Florence, placed in the Medici garden.

Donatello's Mary Magdalene. Wood, very frail style. Thin, hermit-like. Clothed only with her long hair.

Boticelli's "Birth of Venus". This was groundbreaking because it shows a nude woman that is not Eve. Eve was typically the only nude woman shown in artwork. It's a non-Christian painting. The bodies are floating, not grounded.

Botticelli's "Primavera". She looks kind of like Mary, borrowing from Paegan ideas and pointing to more Christian values. Celebrating the body for what it is: elegant, beautiful. Not really any perspective.

What is Renaissance art:
 - draws on realism
 - perspective (brunolesci)
 - borrowing classical (pagan) themes
 - Geometrical arrangement
 - light and shadowing
 - backgrounds
 - artists are able to live from comissions

Savonarola
 - argues against worldy excesses
 - argues against pagan themes
 - destroys a lot of art (burns it)
 - started talking against the church, is excommunicated
 - eventually he is hung and burned at the same place he burned the art

## Machiavelli
 - tries to be a friend of the Medici, falls in and out of favor
 - goes against the ethics of the church and says that the most important thing is to retain power
 - famous for saying "the end justifies the means"

The Prince
 - dedicated to the Medici
 - based on the exploits of Caesare Borgia

The Role of Government
 - mainain atmosphere of saftey
 - protect rights of citizens
 - punish criminals
 - provide services to citizens

What are the worst conditionas that can exist in a society? Chaos!

What is the primary role of the leader? To stabalize!

A prince's duties:
 - mainatin stability
 - manage change
 - use virtue as required
 - be liberal or stingy as required for the moment
 - be loved and feared, avoid hatred
 - know when to keep a promise
 - hold to the right when possible, but do what is required
 - the end justifies the means

## High Renaissance

The heart of the course on the history of creativity.

Roots of Renaissance
 - increase in education/literacy
 - appreciataion of classical (roman/greek) era
 - humanism
 - wealthy middle class/ruling elite
 - city-state civic pride

Leonardo da Vinci
 - examines the intereor of everything

notebooks were coded, read from right to left (mirrored)

he's a scientist, engineer, and artist

sfumato - a kind of shading that is a really softened line so it kind of looks 3D

Madonna of the Rocks
 - geometric arragment of figures
 - foreshortening

Mona Lisa
 - it's probably just dirty (needs to be cleaned)

The Last Supper
 - really bad condition
 - geometric organization
 - judas has elbow on the table

Michelangelo

Pieta
 - first commission
 - only signed peice of art

David

Moses
 - had horns (mistranslation)

Sistine Chapel

## Reformation

Catholic CHurch in 15th Century
 - rome being rebuilt after captivity
 - use of indulgences to raise money
 - persecution of heretics
 - wycliffe and tyndale - england
 - jan huss - bohemia

Martin Luther
 - sees himself as a flawed individual
 - takes a trip to rome and see's the lavishness of rome and indulgences first hand
 - becomes a teacher at Wittenberg
 - Tetzel "As soon as a coin rings, the soul from pergatory springs"
 - Posted 95 theses which attacks indulgences and the power of the pope
 - nails theses on Halloween of 1517

Diet of Worms
 - Frederick the Wise votes against naming Luther a heretic
 - Luther is kidnapped by Frederick and taken to a Castle where he is given amnisty

Luther's Basics
 - faith alone (not works) grants salvation
 - scriptures alone is the authority, not the church
 - power comes to all believers, pope/priests don't give the power
 - Doesn't discourage break off groups

Zwingli (Zurich)
 - sacrament is only symbolic, not literally the blood and flesh of christ

Calvin (Geneva)
 - Predestination

**Know that it's violent times in France**

Catholics vs. Protestants
 - violence across Europe
 - iconoclasm (destruction of symbols)
 - peace of Augsburg 1555 (free to choose your religion)

Counter reformation
 - response to protestant reformation
 - inquisition destroyed books and other materials
 - council of trent comissions art to promote the church

"Men must be changed by religion, not religion by men."
