#Introduction to the Gospel of John

What's unique about this gospel?

- Most of the content of John is unique.
- It's a much larger scale, it starts way back in Genesis.
- In other gospels he doesn't tell people who he is as much, but in this one he keeps saying "I am God".
- Jesus is always omniscient in this gospel, he always knows what people were thinking.
- There is some of the other people's reasoning, specifically Pilat talking in private about his justification for killing Christ.
- More about doctrine of the stories (specifically the feeding of the 5000). Who he is (being god) and why that matters.

Who is John?

- John the Beloved. He gives himself this name. "The desciple whom Jesus loved."

What is his background?

- He was a fisherman in galilee. He was definately a Jew.
- He isn't writing to the Jews, he is writing to members of the Church who are already belivers.
- Other gospels tell what Christ did, John tell why what he did matters to you.
- Kind of like the "new member lessons".

John also wrote the 3 epistles and the Book of Revelation.

- Surprising because the gospel of John is so straightforward, but the other books (specifically the book of revelation) are much less so.
- Apocalypse means to unveil something. The revelation of Jesus Christ.

John knows what he's talking about when it comes to imagery

##Dating the Gospel

Traditionally dated to between 90-100 A.D.

- Probably the last gospel written.

Shows the most signs of editorial work.

There are 4 major mistakes (issues with sequence of events, things seem reversed):

- John 4:54 John lists this as the second miracle in Galilee, but the water into wine doesn't count because it wasn't in Galiliee.

- Chapter 4, 5, and 6. He keeps going back and forth between Jerusalem and Galilee. It takes 4 weeks to get between the two. 4 is in Galilee, then 5 is in Jerusalem, then 6 is _back_ in Galilee. Some have suggested that it should have gone 4, 6, 5.

- John 8 Woman taken in adultery. It looks like someone just inserted it. It doesn't fit in chapter 8.

- John 14:31-15:1 He says "Arise, let us go hence (let's go now)" and then the next verse, he is just giving a sermon.

John 21:24: "_We_ know his testimony is true" Who is we? First point in John there's a first person '_We_'.

##LDS Viewpoint

1 Nephi 14: Nephi says "If you want to see the rest of the tree of life _go read john_"

D&C 7: John did not die.

##Possible Motivations for John's Gospel

- Mandeans (a group of people that thought John was better than Christ), counter this to show Jesus was superior to John the Baptist

- Docetism (early Christian movement, means 'to think'): Jesus only _seemed_ to be human, but he was really a divine spirit. John would have been countering this.

- John's Christology: Jesus is constantly omnicient.
  * The Johannine Jesus knows all things, speaks truth in a divine way, cannot be killed, but voluntarily lays down his life.

  * John 1:1: In the beginning was the word, and the word was God... Jesus as God and the Word

  * John 18: Garden of Gathsemanie, John doesn't show an atonement happening here. Supposedly incapable of suffering? Jesus says "I am" and they all fall over, when the guards come to take him. "I am" is the same phrase used when Moses saw the burning bush.

- Symbolism of John

  * Lots of symbolism because of John's Jewish background.
