##The Raising of Lasarus
- In John 11, Jesus hears that one of his close friends has died.
- Several curiosities:
 * Jesus aits four days (v 39). Lazarus was decaying for 4 days, he was really dead.
 * Thomas' zealousness (v 16). "Let us also go that we may die with him" He thinks they may start a riot and Jesus will be killed.
 * Mary and Martha's recations (v 21-28, 29-32) "If you'd been here, my brother wouldn't have died"
 * Jesus' emotional state. "Jesus wept" He is willing to mourn with those who mourn, comfort those that need to be comforted.
 * Caiaphas' rationalization. "Better that one man die..." Sounds a lot like Nephi. He thinks that Jesus' death will save the Jewish nation because he can't lead them astray, but it actually saves them because of the atonement/resurrection.

##The Anointing at Bethany - Complicated
 - It's a woman, touching his feet. Washing feet is a job for slaves.

##Roman Triumph
Romans after a victory would parade in honor of the General that culminated in a sacrifice at the temple.
Jesus entering the city on a donkey with palm leaves would look like he was a powerful general starting a revolution.
They shout "hosana" which means "save us now".

##Monday
- Cleansing the temple: "Behold your house is left unto you desolate" (Matt 23:38)
- Cursing the fig tree. Why does Jesus hate figs? The fig tree is a metaphor for the **house of israel**. Shows that the convenant will be fulfilled and a new convenant will be established.
- Three parables:
 * The two sons.
 * The wedding feast. Wedding is prepared, father says go get the guests, but they're too busy. So he says "then get anybody off the street". So all the strangers are at the feast. Which means: The jewish nation is going to be destroyed, and all those who are true receivers of the covenant are going to be a...?
 * The wicked tenants. Owner of the vinyard sends 3 servants, one gets beat, one gets killed, one gets stoned (by the husbandmen). The owner sends more, they kill them too. Finally sends his son, they kill him. Metaphor for the prophets and Jesus himself being killed. The pharisees knew their time being the husbandmen was over and a new era was upon them. 