##What's different in the Gospel of John:
John has Jesus die the day before passover

Jesus cleanses the temple first in John

3 Passovers in John vs. 1 in others

What's missing?
 - No Parables
 - No sermon on the Mount
 - John does include several other long discourses. He doesn't give a sermon, but usually starts talking to someone and then goes into a monologue (Nicodemus)

##John's Christology
Jesus is a superman, all knowing, all powerful.
He does get tired, so he's still mortal.
Dying on the cross he seems to still be in control, takes inventory of who is there.
Garden of Gathsemane when he says "I am" the guards fall to the ground.

##John 1:1
"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God."
Word means a word you can speak, but also an entire argument. Greek word for Word is logos which has a ton of meanings.

1. The pre-mortal Jesus was devine

2. He is the source of Life and Light
 - He is God, he is the light of the world

3. He was made _flesh_
 - "The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us..."

4. He gives us the power to become sons of God

##The wedding at Cana (John 2)
 - John specifies that it's on the third day

##Jesus and Nicodemus (John 3)
 - You would think Nocodemus would know _something_ about baptism, but the fact that he's confused isn't all that surprising.
 - What's up with the wind? The word for wind and spirit are the same. It's a play on words in Greek. *There are some things you can't see, wind is one of them*. Why is wind like spirit? There are some things that you know are real, that you can't see, that you have to experience. He is already prophesying about his death. There are no surprises in John.

##Woman at the well
 - Jesus goes straight through Sameria instead of going around.
 - More than that, he's talking to the woman at the well.
 - Highly unusuaul for a Jew to be talking to a Samaraten, much less asking one for water.
 - More unusual for a Jewish man to be talking to a Samaraten woman.
 - They're at the well at noon, which is highly unusual.
 - He tells her he'd give her living water. She thinks he's talking about a spring, because it would be a lot better and easier.
 - She asks "Where is your water?" He answers "Go get your husband." She says "I don't have a husband." She's been with 5 men and the one she's currently sleeping with is not her husband, and she recognizes that question as prophecy.
 - She says "I percieve you are a prophet" and then asks him a really tricky question...


