#Enos, Jarom, Omni, and Words of Mormon

##Review
Jacob 2
- Focus was on intention. Who you are, and why do you do the things you do.
- If you give a gift, and you don't want to, the gift means nothing.

Jacob 7: Sharem
- Not necessarily an anti-Christ, just a really good Jew.
- Believed redemption could only come by the law of Moses.

##Enos-Words of Mormon

We go from very lengthy books, to shorter books. Why?

- Lots of war and bloodshed. Nephite against Nephite.

- There are prophets and revelations at this time, but still a ton of conflict.

- People saying "We were told to leave a record, so here you go" Just a few verses.

- Passing very quickly through time.

- Probably a lot of what was written through this time was in the secular history, which we don't have.

- Jarom 1:2 "There's already been a lot of great stuff written, so I don't need to re-write it for you"

##Enos (son of Jacob)
- Chooses to write about his conversion. His repentance narrative, and his realization of the truth.

Enos and the Remission of sins
  - "I will tell you of the _wrestle_ which I had before God..."
  - A wrestle between what he knows he's supposed to do, and what he wants to do.
  - "My soul hungered" - He wanted it badly. Enough to pray all day and night.
  - Jacob (his father) taught him what to do, and he drew on that.

Two key lessons:
- You have to want remission.

- You have to remove sin before you can remove guilt.

How does remission happen? (Enos 1:8)
- "Thy faith has made thee whole"

Who does Enos pray for next? The Nephites and the Lamanites
- Charity and good works follow true conversion

##Book of Jarom

Jarom understands the role of the covenant. Nephites beat the Lamanites because they keep the commandments.

##Omni

Tells us about a man named Mosiah.
- He is righteous.
- Father of King Benjaman.
- A prophet.
- Connections with the King because he had the record.
- Takes with him three things:
  * Brass plates
  * Liahona
  * Sword of Laban
- It is possible that it's the king.

There is a problem in Nephite society, a religous civil war.

3rd exodus in the Book of Mormon.

Leaves the Land of Nephi and goes up to Zarahemla.

Mulekites live in Zarahmela.

Who are the Mulekites?
- Leave Jerusalem shortly after Lehi's family.
- Have a king (named Zarahemla)
- They are in apostasy. Do not believe in God.
- Language is gone because they have no records.
- Mosiah will bring the records.

Mosiah shows up with the brass plates and they make him King.

The Mulekites meet Coriantumr who is the last of the Jaredites.
With him they find a stone or record that they are unable to translate.
Mosiah translates it by the gift and power of God.
Thus, Mosiah is our first seer.

Nephi's lineage was the kings.
Jacob's lineage was the record keepers.
In Omni, Nephi's lineage become both.

##Words of Mormon

Bridge between Omni and Mosiah.
