#Mosiah

##Why does King Benjamin give the speech he does?
 - The transisition between kings is not smooth, as opposed to what Omni leads us to believe.
 - What kind of people are in Zarahemla? False prophets, false christs, false priests
 - Benjamin wants to establish a uniform religious ideaology.
 - There are two groups in Zarahemla: Mulekites and Nephites. Huge tension between them politically.

##What is in his speech that accounts for these conditions?
 - Unity. He outlines 4 relationships and how we need to be unified.

##Things to know about Mosiah:
 - The shift from first to third person.
   * Mormon is the editor (_and thus we see..._)
 - Prominent themes of the book are _bondage and deliverance_ (both physical and spritual) and _kingship and servitude_. How does a good king rule vs a bad king? (Benjamin vs Noah).
 - Mosiah 1 is likely more acurately Mosiah 3. We probably lost some of Mosiah in the 116 pages. Who is the book named after? Probably named after Mosiah 1, not Mosiah 2. Also, no summary headnote.

##4 Relationships in Benjamin's speech
###Relationship #1 - God and Us (ch. 2)
 - v.21 "...I say, if ye should serve him will all your whole souls yet _ye would be unprofitable servants_"
 - Benjamin says I was a good king, and my son will be as well. Anticipating power struggle during succession.
 - We must serve God and our brother, both relationships must be in tact.
 - Unprofitable servant: no matter how hard we work, we can never break even with God. We can never repay him.
 - What does God ask for in return? Keep our covenants.
 - This relationship is defined by my ability to keep my covenants.
 - Parralleled by the parable of the unmerciful servant in the NT.

###Relationship #2 - Me and Me (ch. 3)
 - v.19 "For _the natural man_ is an enemy to God... and will be, forever and ever..."
 - Everyone (even Paul and Nephi) struggles with their carnal nature, which tempts us to do things we know are wrong.
 - This is thre human condition. It is why we are here.
 - We must continue to climb towards greater spritual heights

###Relationship #3 - Me and You (ch. 4)
 - v.12 "ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always _retain a remission_ of your sins..."
 - Are we not all beggars? Once we recognize that we have been blessed by Jesus's love, we are obligated to show the same love and charity to all God's children!
 - As a parent we won't let our children go naked or hungry or transgress the laws of God, or let them quarrel. We will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness.

###Relationship #4 - Sons an Daughters
 - To be continued...

#Review!!!
Covers everything from 2 Nephi 1 - WoM.
1 - 10: Matching people
11 - 25: True/False
26 - 45: M.C.
46 - 53: Matching passages from Isaiah to themes.
54 - 60: Matching verses to chapters.

59: Behold I am amalakai the son of obinadon... Omni
42: Prophecy in 2 Nephi "sealed book" refers to who? Martin Harris